[Applause]
[Music]
what is up guys karma medic here and
today I want to take you through a full
day of what it's like to do scientific
research over the summer as a medical
student so if you don't know who I am my
name is Nasir and I'm a second year
medical student studying at King's
College London and every year I try and
do some scientific research in a lab
because I want to understand the theory
and underlying experiments that discover
the pathology of the diseases that I end
up seeing in a clinical setting it's one
of the most common questions that I end
up getting asked on Instagram and in
YouTube comments is how did I find my
research position and how did I get
accepted to it very simply you want to
send out emails to PI's or researchers
that are doing work in the fields that
you are interested in you just want to
send out a lot of emails to different
people in that field and of course you
want to tailor the emails to the person
who you're sending it to you know why
you're interested in their research
specifically what techniques and skills
you have available that you can bring to
the team and what it is that you want to
get out of the research experience and
hopefully through sending a bunch of
emails at least one of them will respond
to you and give you the opportunity to
do some research experience anyways I'm
running a little bit late for work now
so let's continue on the journey and
I'll see you guys
[Music]
all right so before we go inside I
thought I'd fill you guys in a little
bit about what it is I'm actually doing
in the lab so last year when I was here
I took on my own research project for
three months and I was doing an animal
project working with mice investigating
the role of a specific gene in
ankylosing spondylitis which is an
inflammatory disease of the spine this
year I'm not going to be in Toronto for
as long I only have about a month and a
half here this year I'm not going to be
in Toronto for as long I'm only here for
about a month and a half and so we
decided that it would be a better use of
my time if I helped out another lab
member with their own project so this
year again I'm taking a look at the role
of a specific gene in this disease
ankylosing spondylitis but I'm doing it
more from a molecular biology or cell
biology standpoint so I'm not working
with animals no mice this year it's
mostly working with different cell lines
anyways that's a bit of a brief overview
about what it is that I'm doing here of
course I can't go into too much detail
because all this work is confidential
until it gets published anyways I'm sure
I'll still be able to show you guys a
lot and I'm sure you'll find it
interesting so let's head into the lab
now so I can show you guys what I'm
doing better
[Music]
so I usually start my day on my desk
reading up on the different procedures
or experiments that I'm gonna be doing
throughout the day this step is very
important because it allows me to
mentally plan what I want to do
throughout the day and it gives me some
structure I then read over the hard
copies of the protocols that I'm gonna
be following and I make notes on them
for specific concentrations or dilutions
that I'm gonna need later on in the day
inside you'll have to calculate those
things as I'm going along in my
experiments so after I feel ready and
prepared for the activities of the day I
step in the lab and get to work my first
steps are to collect everything that
we're gonna need to run the protocols I
also prepare some reagents that I know
that I'm gonna need within the next
couple of hours I don't have to make
them during the experiment so today
we're continuing work on several western
blots that we did earlier in the week
Western blotting is a technique that's
used to detect and analyze proteins so
what you do is you take your cells or
your tissue of interest then you want to
extract the protein from inside we take
that protein we run it on a gel transfer
it to a membrane and then we're gonna
retain these proteins with a new
antibody of interest I'm making a sound
really easy but honestly this is like a
full day of work so what you do is you
take a primary antibody which binds
directly to the protein of interest and
then we stain it with a secondary
antibody which we can detect later on
through some imaging and that secondary
antibody binds to the primary antibody
that is bound to our protein of interest
during the incubation periods where we
had to wait for half an hour or an hour
to allow the antibody to bind to the
protein I walked around the lab and
asked a couple of the fellow lab members
if they would let me film some of the
cool stuff they're doing and of course
they said yes so enjoy this cool montage
of cutting-edge research happening in
the field of Dermatology
[Music]
[Applause]
alright guys so it's about 1 p.m. now
and we're gonna break for lunch but it
can be earlier it can be later depending
on how our experiments are running so
I'm actually doing research at the
crumble Research Institute this year one
of the great things about that is that
we have this area next to it called
Kensington Market and it's basically a
collection of all kinds of different
foods from around the world so they have
things like burgers and pinatas sushi
fried chicken and waffles pasta Mexican
places all kinds of food all in one
place and so each day we leave we try
and find something new try out a
restaurant that we haven't had before so
today I think we've decided to go for
sushi for Poquette so I'll show you guys
what that looks like
[Music]
all right so last week on my Instagram I
asked you guys if you wanted me to try
out this 24 karat gold ice cream that I
found here in Kensington and a bunch of
you said yes and of course I would never
let down my amazing Instagram followers
check out my Instagram haven't followed
me already
anyway so I'm gonna go try that now and
I'll let you guys know what it tastes
like
that is easily the most expensive ice
cream I have ever purchased looks like
this let's see what it tastes like
better be good
alright alright the soft-serve is very
good not sure if I can actually taste
the gold it doesn't really taste any
different than normal softer but the ice
cream does taste really good so I'll
take it
[Music]
all right so ice-creams finished and
I've just had my lunch as well time to
go back upstairs and continue my
experiments I'll have a couple more
hours of work and then she'll be done
for the day
[Music]
so it's about 3 p.m. in the afternoon
now which is around the time when I get
a little bit tired at the lab and I feel
like I need some coffee so I'm gonna
head downstairs and pick up some coffee
from Tim Hortons which if you don't know
is my favorite coffee place in Canada
which I don't know it's my favorite
coffee place in Canada all right so I'm
going to Timmy's got my coffee now
coffee quality actually isn't that good
but I really like the taste and it just
really reminds me of Toronto so I enjoy
it
anyways heading back into working out
for the final productive hours of the
day
[Music]
all right so that is the work they done
I'm not gonna lie it was pretty busy was
running around quite a bit trying to
keep all the different things that were
going on organized in my head you know
sometimes with research and experiments
there's so many different things you
have to think about so many different
timers that you've set and everything
finishes at a different time and
sometimes it's difficult to multitask
all those things together anyways the
workday is done and now I can move on to
the second half of my day we're just
gonna involve a much-needed gym session
followed at dinner and then some sort of
social activity so since I'm only in
Toronto for a month and a half this year
I wanted to make sure that I made the
most out of all of my evenings whether
that be going out with old friends doing
fun activities like cycling down by the
water going to the gym or going for a
run or whatever I just want to be
productive in the time that I have in my
evenings so scientific that's what I do
and say hi I guess those kids were
interested in the YouTube channel anyway
I'll catch up with you in a little bit
after the journey home
[Applause]
[Music]
so I was on my way home and I passed by
the University of Toronto which as
probably you'll know is where I did my
first degree I was studying immunology
biotechnology and microbiology and so I
couldn't help but stop by I want to show
you guys a couple of the classrooms a
couple of the cool scenery and buildings
that are on this campus holds a very
special place in my heart and I think it
would be cool to like make a nice little
b-roll segment like I did in my last
vlog so that's gonna play in three two
one and enjoy
[Music]
No
so I've just gone at home now and
changed the time is about 5:35 so it's
right after work and that's what I like
to go to the gym because that means that
I can get out of the way and then have
the rest of the evening off to either do
my social activities chill or do
whatever I want it helps me de-stress
after my work or my studies and it helps
me feel like I have a more balanced life
so today at the gym I'm going to be
hitting back and biceps I have a
different routine for each muscle group
that I do on different days and I'll go
into a little bit more detail about that
in a future video I'll meet you guys
back here in about an hour an hour and
15 minutes and we'll continue the rest
of our day
[Music]
alright that was a good good workout
really tired I'm really sweaty as you
can see and the best part
I've already done my meal prep I've
either already uploaded it or you're
gonna see in next week but I have a
whole video about meal prepping how to
make meals that are time efficient very
healthy nutritious and full of protein
whenever that videos uploaded I'll leave
a link to it here on the screen so let
me show you guys what I've gone here
couscous as the base I've got chicken
thighs and then all kinds of vegetables
there's carrots bell peppers bean
sprouts bok choy jalapeno etc etc I'm
gonna fill that on the stove and then
unwind a little bit while I watch some
office on Netflix and yeah we'll catch
up in a bit it's currently 8 p.m. just
finished dinner and I've texted a couple
of friends we're gonna meet at one of
their houses and we're gonna cook some
dinner I'm probably not gonna eat that
much because I just say a bunch of food
and then we're gonna watch one of the
new black mayor episodes that we all
haven't seen yet so I'm gonna quickly
jump in the shower and get changed head
over to their house I'm gonna stay there
till about 11:30 and that's usually when
I leaves that I have enough time to come
home and be asleep by 12:00 in order to
wake up at 7:00 7:30 tomorrow and repeat
the name
[Music]
alright guys that is it from me it is
past midnight now and I am quite tired I
should probably get some sleep before I
wake up tomorrow and do this all over
again I wanted to say a huge huge thank
you if you guys have watched this video
till here please do leave a like on this
video if you enjoyed it helps the
channel immensely and it helps me out as
well and also subscribe to the channel
if you want to see more content from me
in the future anyways guys that is it
for me and I will see you in the next
one peace